112R-003: Hi Darren.
112T-008: Hi! How are you doing, Joe?
112R-003: Good. I was wondering who that was, because I don't know.
112T-008: Right.
112T-008: It sort of automatically came up with my code today. So it's.
112R-003: Oh, that's really interesting.
112R-003: Okay.
112R-003: good to know.
112R-003: Hi, Isa. I don't know if you can hear me if you're all the way logged in, yet
112R-003: usually takes me like a half hour of getting all my settings right.
112R-003: See. How do I do that, too.
112R-003: at some point.
112R-003: Yeah. Mine did not
112R-003: prompt me to do that, I have no idea. Let's see.
112R-003: there we go. I got it.
112R-003: Hi! Isa!
112S-002: I know we are supposed to change our names to the special wording. I just don't remember what my code was.
112R-003: Yeah. Oh, neither do I. I just had to look it up. I'll
112R-003: I'll share that. And one of the things that I actually discovered last time
112R-003: is in. I don't remember if it was this meeting or a different star team meeting, but we didn't change our names over to our participant numbers until much later in the meeting. And yet the transcript reflect like backfilled the changes.
112R-003: So
112R-003: yeah, it just means a little bit less work like Vilma and I, literally today have been interviewing some Ra's to help with cleaning these transcripts.
112R-003: And so we're just trying to save the Ra's work wherever we can, and cleaning the transcripts. And
112R-003: so, anyway, that was a that was a pleasant discovery.
112R-003: How are you doing, David?
112A-005: I'm doing really well, Joe, thank you.
112A-005: It it was nice to have the link in the
112A-005: in the deal. I'm sorry in the calendar invite, because I just it just popped right up and I could open it. So thank you for that.
112A-005: Okay, yeah.
112R-003: Trying to per perfect my technique here.
112A-005: Well, there's a lot of, and there's a huge number of details. So
112A-005: I'm impressed with everything that you're doing.
112R-003: Well, today I'll I'll tell you anybody who has words of wisdom. Because the next, the next big thing we have
112R-003: on the order of 60 students who are have volunteered now to do interviews for the questions that we develop as teams to test out and see what happens when the students answer these questions.
112R-003: and
112R-003: there's gonna be some complex scheduling tetris
112R-003: with all of those interviews. So if you have any past experience about the which tools have used, and the way you've used them to allow people to select their appointment slots and any
112R-003: to do's and 2 don'ts that you've discovered along the way, I would be all ears on those.
112A-005: So are you trying to get together groups? Or is it just.
112R-003: No, it's a single. It's a single student.
112A-005: Okay.
112R-003: Interviewee.
112A-005: Interviewing with you and Vilma.
112R-003: Well, yes, at 1st it'll probably be just me and Vilma, but then it'll probably be me or Vilma.
112R-003: and maybe an Ra.
112R-003: For technical support.
112A-005: Yeah. So
112A-005: I've used calendly to have students.
112A-005: you know.
112A-005: Set up appointments
112A-005: with me. It's free. I mean, there is a free version.
112A-005: It's pretty easy to use, and I was, you know, pretty satisfied with the way it works, like when a student
112A-005: signs up for an appointment, you get a, you get an email.
112A-005: and it goes into onto your calendar as well.
112R-003: Gotcha.
112R-003: Okay.
112A-005: I know there's I mean people. There's a lot of these things that people use successfully. So
112A-005: that's just the one that I've used in the past.
112R-003: I've heard some good things about it, and I haven't used it yet, so. But.
112T-008: I'm I'm using. You can book me for the same, essentially the same purpose. It probably is very similar.
112R-003: You can book me is the name of the application.
112T-008: Exactly. It's a website. You can book me.com. I think it is.
112R-003: Calendly. You can book me.
112A-005: Hmm.
112R-003: Hi Jennifer.
112A-005: Everybody be on their best behavior because I'm taking names.
112A-005: I mean, I'm taking notes, taking.
112R-003: Which is a good point. So let me.
112R-003: and with ease of what you were talking about, like none of us knows what our our special representative numbers are yet, or strings, I guess. So let me go ahead and open up the meeting log and share that.
112R-003: and show again how to find those and change those.
112R-003: So I just posted the meeting
112R-003: agenda link in the chat.
112R-003: and one of the things that we did is right at the top of our meeting notes.
112R-003: There is a link straight to the team directory.
112R-003: right at the very top of the document.
112R-003: and I'll share my screen as I'm doing it.
112R-003: And so in theory here, if I go into that team directory
112R-003: and then I go down to the tabs to our Ula tab down here.
112R-003: then I can see what my.
112R-003: what my idea is. So that's where they're all kind of grouped there.
112R-003: Anybody had anything adventurous, exciting, or unexpected happen in the last few days.
112A-005: I drove 3,500 miles in the last, you know, week or 10 days or so.
112R-003: 3,500.
112A-005: Yeah, it was great.
112R-003: Goodness!
112R-003: I'm curious.
112A-005: I went. I went and visited my family, and then
112A-005: came back and did some sightseeing. So it was really nice.
112R-003: Gotcha.
112R-003: I went to Washington, DC. For the 1st time.
112R-003: Yeah. Last last week I went to Washington, DC. For the 1st time. I was at a conference there. And so I
112R-003: I actually
112R-003: touched or actually it was a slap. I'm going to say it was more of a slap. The Washington Monument.
112R-003: It didn't fall over it.
112A-005: Thank goodness.
112R-003: It's very, very large.
112R-003: It's much larger than I realized.
112A-005: So. So you had some time for sightseeing. Then.
112R-003: Just that one afternoon, really.
112R-003: yeah.
112A-005: It's such a fun fun place to visit, because there's so much you can just drop into. You.
112T-008: Last time I was there I was with about 68th graders. So that was,
112T-008: maybe a little less fun. My son's school.
112R-003: A lot of 8th graders. Darren.
112T-008: Yeah, I was only in charge of.
112R-003: Be about.
112A-005: There's.
112R-003: I'd be evaluating my decisions.
112T-008: The bus trip was kind of brutal from Michigan, but.
112A-005: Hi, Jeff!
112R-003: Sure.
112S-002: I have had nothing interesting happen recently, but I'm excited for this week, because it's homecoming week at my school.
112R-003: Oh, very fun!
112S-002: Yes.
112A-005: I'm sorry I forgotten. So so you're on the a dance.
112A-005: Yes.
112S-002: So I'm on the dance team. So
112S-002: a lot of stuff that we'll do a lot of appearances. So like we, a lot of the towns like, throw a lot of
112S-002: things in town, throw parties and stuff, and we just go and cheer. And then on Friday we have our big bonfire with a concert. So we dance at that, and then our football game, and that's just a big party.
112A-005: Nice.
112A-005: does your
112R-003: Yeah, what about you? Anything interesting going on.
112S-001: This week the most interesting thing would be. I really like cooking and baking.
112S-001: So I got a new bread maker, and I was planning on making like a chocolate bread thing. But I haven't decided on the recipe yet, but I've been like planning out all week how I can make this really good chocolate bread. So I'm excited, for when I like finish it.
112S-001: that's extreme.
112A-005: These meetings aren't in person.
112R-003: Yes.
112R-003: so well. Hello, everyone welcome once again. I had I I had a couple of little things that I wanted to share primarily the 1st thing which I've done which is to make to. I put a big reminder for myself at the top of the notes, which let me repost.
112R-003: Make sure everybody copy.
112R-003: There's a link to our meeting agenda, which is much less
112R-003: agenda E. This week. You'll notice we're not trying to drive the boat nearly so much. But I I wanted to put that reminder to make sure we share our or change our names to our Ids, which we have done so that the transcripts will be cleaner, for, so that the dozens and dozens and dozens of transcripts that are generated by this project are easier to clean for all of our research assistants.
112R-003: And the second thing that I wanted to share was, actually.
112R-003: we conducted film and I conducted on Friday, a pilot, a test drive of our interview protocol, which is the the interview, the set of interview questions that we're going to be asking of students once. This team has some questions that they're ready to
112R-003: like, hey, fly these test and see how they go. Let's see what students actually do when they try answering our questions. So the. This was a calculus example. So it's not a linear algebra example. It's a calculus example. But there is in the meeting log. You will see.
112R-003: Maybe I'll just share my screen.
112R-003: and I guess we can do this, however, makes sense. I don't know if it would work for us to actually play it, live and watch it all simultaneously. We can give it a shot.
112R-003: and if that doesn't work we can just kind of.
112R-003: Take a break and each download and watch it offline, if need be, or something like that. I'm not sure how it would work. We can give it a try, though. But you'll see here, this
112R-003: sample of our initial cognitive interview pilot that happened on Friday. And so what I did is I
112R-003: actually clipped out about 7 min of it. It's not done elegantly. I don't know anything about video editing. I just literally sliced it up with ffmpeg
112R-003: and used python deface to blur the faces because I didn't have my zoom settings correct, anyway. So it's just a little sample.
112R-003: and let me just give it. Give it a try to see what happens if it can play for us. During the meeting.
112A-005: If you don't mind me asking. So you know, as as a note taker, I just wanna make sure I'm sort of aware of the expectation. So so we're mainly just gonna track
112A-005: things that we want like things that are action
112A-005: items. Right? So I mean, I wouldn't have notes like, Oh, we watched the video, or something like that, is that.
112R-003: Not necessarily. No, you don't have to. Actually, it doesn't have to be a true like a play by play kind of thing, any anything that the note taker says. Hmm! That's I think that's interesting or salient.
112R-003: Take it down, and that that'll vary a little bit by notetaker. But the pressure is off because we're recording. Right? So if there's something that we realize after the fact, oh, that whole thing we discussed about Orthogonality, nobody wrote anything down. It's okay. We have a recording, right? So it don't feel too much pressure whenever it's your turn as notetaker. And thank you for asking that.
112A-005: Okay? And and then there's a section on here that says questions
112A-005: for the project coordinators. So the project coordinators are you? And Vilma? Is that.
112R-003: Basically ye yes.
112R-003: ish
112R-003: everybody in kind of the the project. Pi umbrella.
112A-005: Okay, it comes.
112R-003: It could cause. It could be a technical, a technical question that transcends Vilma. And I,
112R-003: right?
112R-003: basically anything that's like, there's we have a question that's outside the scope of this star team. Anything like that would go there.
112A-005: Okay, great. Thank you so much.
112R-003: All right, cross your fingers. I'm gonna see if I can play this video clip of this sample cognitive interview. We'll see what happens.
112R-003: Hold on.
112R-003: I realized that I stopped sharing.
112R-003: And can I just share?
112R-003: I might have to specifically request it shares with audio. I don't know if it automatically will do that. Let me just play it for a second. Give me a thumbs up if you're getting audio off of it. Okay.
112R-003: no, no audio. Okay.
112R-003: how do we share this with audio?
112R-003: Oh, share sound?
112R-003: Okay, let me try it again.
112R-003: So how you arrived at your answer?
112R-003: Yeah. So just kind of like thinking of a definition of a derivative F of X plus h, minus F of X.
112R-003: In this case I kind of thought of F of X plus h as F of B,
112R-003: and then by saying, they're like infinitely close. That's kind of how
112R-003: the limit. As H approaches 0 is thought of right? So F of x plus H
112R-003: and H approaching 0,
112R-003: it's just F of X, because they're infinitely close. Basically
112R-003: yeah. And then we divide by H, which is the which is the difference between B and A,
112R-003: and since they're infinitely close, it approaches 0. So like kind of like the limit.
112R-003: What in the question was either surprising or confusing for you?
112R-003: And I guess the part that says, How do we know that? Yeah. So how do we know? I feel like I would think like, oh, we already know that there's like
112R-003: no definition, I guess.
112R-003: because, like, we just take the derivative plug in a and we find the slope. I've never thought of that. How do we know?
112R-003: I always took it like, Oh, it's obvious. But yeah, going back to like the definition of the derivative.
112R-003: That's yeah. That's like, as we take 2 values that approach it. And that's how we find it.
112R-003: If you could, how would you modify the question? And why?
112R-003: Hmm.
112R-003: instead of, putting how do we know i'd put y.
112R-003: why is
112R-003: So like, why is the slope of the tangent line
112R-003: to F of X at X equals a F prime of a
112R-003: that. Yeah, that. How do we know? Kind of like
112R-003: confused me a little, I guess like or maybe
112R-003: I'm not sure, actually, because
112R-003: now that I read, how do we know? It kind of takes me back to the definition of a derivative.
112R-003: And if I like.
112R-003: and talking about replacing it with Y,
112R-003: I feel like I want to have gone back to the definition of the derivative
112R-003: just by having that. So
112R-003: I think,
112R-003: I think I'll just keep it the same. Actually.
112R-003: So you decide, maybe you wouldn't change it. Maybe you would keep it as
112R-003: yeah, I'd keep it.
112R-003: I think that's fine.
112R-003: Okay?
112R-003: All right. So let's go ahead and look at the second question. Then.
112R-003: Oh, no, there's 1 more. I missed one. Sorry? Oh, sorry for that. Francisco. I have a question so
112R-003: I found it very interesting when you say that? How do we?
112R-003: They were? How do we know make you go to the definition? Whereas the why didn't make you go to the definition? Say a little bit more.
112R-003: Hmm.
112R-003: hmm! I feel like y would have just like taken me to like higher level. So like just
112R-003: doing the power rules. So, for example, for the second question.
112R-003: just doing 4, 4, minus 2 XI feel like I would have explained it that way. So like
112R-003: maybe use something like
112R-003: that. Instead of the definition.
112R-003: I think, how do we know it actually like? Took me back and like helped me explain everything better, more clearly in your own words. Please tell us what the question is asking.
112R-003: So it's saying, apply the limit. Definition that instantly made me think of F of x plus h minus F of X over H, and it also, oh, something that really like
112R-003: made me think about it is that it had the h divided at the end. The limit of H is also a big part, but that dividing by H. Since I like already knew the formula, I know it divides by H, so yeah, just copy
112R-003: the top part
112R-003: and evaluate the limit. It's just finding the slope at 0. So take the derivative.
112R-003: And or, oh.
112R-003: yeah, so it says, evaluate the limit. But I know evaluating this limit is just the derivative at
112R-003: F prime of 0 or or at 0. So it just, I can just take the derivative and evaluate at 0.
112R-003: And yeah, basically same thing for the rest.
112R-003: Okay, what was surprising in the question.
112R-003: I guess. The only like
112R-003: confusing part, maybe, was that
112R-003: I just thought evaluate the limit, and I wasn't sure if they wanted me to like solve this whole thing.
112R-003: Or if I could just take the derivative and plug in one edit.
112R-003: Okay.
112R-003: if you could, how would you modify the question? And why?
112R-003: Hmm.
112R-003: I think this is also fine. Maybe.
112R-003: maybe, like, add a note on the on the second part of evaluating a frame of one.
112R-003: because, like
112R-003: oh, I'm not sure, but, like
112R-003: I like already, knew the power rule and things like that. I'm not sure if students would know the power rule at this point I'm guessing, not. So they would actually have to go through the process of the limit. So
112R-003: yeah, I think this is
112R-003: okay, I was just gonna follow up on what you said about evaluating the limit. If how would you do that
112R-003: if like, I didn't know the power rule, I'm guessing sure.
112R-003: yeah. So I would just like solve all this, try to get it as simple, as simple as possible.
112R-003: And then I'm gonna have
112R-003: pretty long formula. I'm guessing it's going to be some factor of H over H,
112R-003: so maybe I could cancel those out
112R-003: or if I have 0 over 0, go to Lopito's rule.
112R-003: And yeah, just yeah. So look, oh, but
112R-003: I'll take Lopito's rule. But I still got to take the derivative of the top and the bottoms.
112R-003: Okay, so that's an
112R-003: there's about 3 portions of the interview that I I really roughly displaced together there. So but you can kind of get a sense of the
112R-003: the flow, a little sampling of some of the items there. And so what you're seeing here is actually our 1st rough attempt. It actually just putting these questions in.
112R-003: This was the active calculus runestone textbook. That's what you're actually seeing displayed. So this the student is actually seeing some quick little questions that we've put in to the active calculus, and they actually type their responses in those text boxes. And then we ask them follow up questions after they go through them. So, seeing this, our hope is that it would give you a little bit more concrete idea of what's going to happen with the questions that we develop. Where are they going to go from here?
112R-003: And the the fact that it's gonna be pretty organic, what kind of feedback we get from the students. So I just wanna open it up for people to discuss like, what? Seeing this.
112R-003: what questions does this raise for you about the process? The the types of questions we need to be developing, how? How we need to be implementing them. Things like that.
112R-003: What thoughts and questions do you have.
112S-001: So I have a thought.
112S-001: It was during his 1st question when the student said that he didn't really like the word. No. But then he liked how it was phrased like, How do we know? And that it's really reminded me of my theory of knowledge class? It's taught in the ib like learning system.
112S-001: but they sort of like. There are different ways that we know things, and mathematical knowledge is like one of the ways we can construct knowledge. So I really liked how the question was phrased, and that same like thought process that he went through of thinking that like, why would they word it this way? And then, realizing that they want you to think in a particular way, it just reminded me of my own experience like as a student. So I did like that.
112T-007: I guess I'm just wondering, like, you know, the kind of how would you change the question?
112T-007: I mean, it was that was really good. How that, you know. The soon thought they would change it in a certain way, and then realized maybe they wouldn't.
112T-007: But I like I I have a hard time imagining, like, I'm wondering if there's a way we could really get to like possible changes without. I just think I think a lot of students might just like, no, it's fine.
112T-007: So I'm wondering like how to sort of dig into that right?
112T-007: Besides, just how would you change it. So I don't know. This is just a thought that occurred to me like, I can just imagine that
112T-007: students are kind of afraid to change things
112T-007: if they understood the question, they don't want to change it. If they didn't understand the question, then that's great.
112T-007: right? So
112T-007: maybe
112T-007: trying to get at like if they didn't do it the way it was anticipated. What might lead you to do it a different way or something, whether we can be more specific about that idea.
112R-003: So Joshua's comment is really kind of
112R-003: is really speaking to
112R-003: the composition of the question that we asked the student right? And Jennifer's question is really speaking to the composition of the protocol. Item.
112R-003: right? What do we ask the student about the question which is interesting? There's kind of concern at both levels. There.
112S-002: Kind of to piggyback off of that. Sometimes when students think that
112S-002: they they want to change a question, I agree that sometimes they they want to change it, but they're afraid to change it, because they feel that the question they're asking is gonna
112S-002: create future contradictions and create more confusion. So sometimes I feel that
112S-002: which I don't know.
112S-002: The student that was being interviewed like he started overthinking. Well, what if another kid thinks this? Or what if another kid misunderstands the question that I want like that he was trying to create, which? Why? Why? He went backwards to the original he was like, no, I think then, the original question is good, so I think sometimes
112S-002: they feel like wording when they want to change something. Their wording is going to create confusion or a contradiction that
112S-002: people might, that others might get confused about.
112S-002: If that makes sense.
112A-005: So I I personally thought this was really interesting, because you know, as someone who writes a lot of questions
112A-005: for their students, you know the the wording. What can seem like a small change in the wording can really seem. You know how how students interpret questions.
112A-005: you know, is something I mean, I've been teaching 30 some odd years.
112A-005: and I still don't feel like I totally am able to predict
112A-005: how they're going to be able to, how they interpret questions. So I thought, I'm really glad that came up, because
112A-005: that's something that I think about a lot. And I
112A-005: I'm hoping I can learn through this process more about
112A-005: that, so that I thought that was kind of cool.
112A-005: I also sort of wondered a little bit, because this student was also bringing in
112A-005: things like the power rule and and things like Lopital's rule.
112A-005: that the students, you know that, I imagine
112A-005: when the students would be.
112A-005: you know. Answering these questions
112A-005: within the context of this course, they probably would not have seen those ideas
112A-005: before, so I sort of appreciated the acknowledgement
112A-005: of that and and sort of well, I know the students probably wouldn't do this, but I mean, it's it's kind of something that I thought about, too like, how do we
112A-005: put ourselves into the position
112A-005: of students that are in the middle of the course.
112T-008: Related to what David was saying. One of the things I struggle with and continue to kind of
112T-008: work my way through is helping students get beyond very minimalist sort of
112T-008: responses to questions. And you know, I'll ask, why does this transformation have a certain property? Or how do you know? And they'll they'll say, Well, the rank is 2 or something, and they they won't say the rank of what or how they know. The rank is 2 or what the rank being 2 means about, you know. So they sort of
112T-008: go for some very
112T-008: sort of tourist response that doesn't get at the kind of connections I wanted them to make right. And so I think one thing I would like to learn more about
112T-008: is how to elicit response from students, that that kind of gets beyond just
112T-008: whatever the they're they're
112T-008: 2 or 3 word
112T-008: higher level reason would be, what? What are the implications of it? I think I think in in the video they were kind of getting at that a little bit right? I mean, if he gave a a short response it was then followed up with
112T-008: a bit more clarity on what he what he meant.
112R-003: And I think this student, this pilot student, had the the advantage of knowing he was piloting for the benefit of shaping this experience for other students to come after right. And this is a more mature mathematical suit. This is somebody who has been up and through multivariable calculus. They're not in calc. One.
112R-003: and so they cannot.
112R-003: They cannot take off those goggles when they're looking at this question.
112R-003: which?
112R-003: also, which kind of like Isa and David. Your comments came in on both sides of this, when the student is thinking like this student is also aware that other students, seeing the question have different goggles
112R-003: right? And it's 1 of my particular logistical questions.
112R-003: When we talked about on our 1st meeting, when we talked about
112R-003: the like the nitty gritty of like. What do you like stating conjectures about? What do you think will be some of the pieces of the students thinking, What do you hope will be the pieces of students thinking and making those explicit? So we can, we know, to look for those
112R-003: from what the team expects. But then, also
112R-003: this bit where
112R-003: we're, gonna we're going to make sure that a student has calculus exposure or has linear algebra exposure before they come into this interview process.
112R-003: right? Not just anybody can be in this experience. But they're gonna have varying levels. And so
112R-003: is the
112R-003: the team. I guess the team needs to be aware of, or I'm not sure how we're
112R-003: how specific we need to be, how constraining we need to be like this student really should only have calc. One knowledge, or this student should be a brand new Newbie person to the calculus sequence or
112R-003: things like that. I don't know. I'm I'm both stating it as something to consider. And I'm also asking, do we need to consider it? I don't know.
112R-003: It's been on my mind, though. That everybody's going to be coming in with different levels of experience. How does that impact? How they actually interact with these questions. So
112R-003: there you go.
112R-003: any other thoughts or questions related to
112R-003: this video or this cognitive interview process that we've seen a little
112R-003: preview of.
112A-005: Well, I I guess I'll just say it was helpful to to see the video, to kind of imagine how this plays out later on. So I think I think this was a really good time
112A-005: to share that with us.
112A-005: Okay.
112R-003: You can thank Vilma. That was Vilma's idea.
112R-003: Villa said. We should show this to the star teams.
112R-003: Vilma has all the best ideas.
112R-003: Okay?
112R-003: let's look at our very sparse agenda.
112R-003: which the next thing on our agenda says finalize which 3 topics to develop questions, for that's the only thing that I could have sketched in our in there.
112R-003: And we can within our time constraint today.
112R-003: We can get as as far in that as we as we get there's no particular
112R-003: specific super concrete goal. We wanted our our initial concrete goal at this stage for all star teams is that by the end of the second meeting, which for us is this meeting that we would have congealed on and agreed on, and all these supporting approximately 3 topics that we want the initial wave of questions to sit within.
112R-003: Where where are those in the textbook?
112R-003: Whether we actually congeal on that really quickly when we look back at our our slides and our ideas that we brainstorm last time. If we we come to that really quickly and we decide, hey? Yeah, I think these, this, this and this are great topics. And I have some ideas for questions I want to ask, and we want to dive right into that great. That's fine.
112R-003: But really, the 1st stage is making sure, before we think about the specific questions, to make sure, we agree on the topic. Slash textbook zones they're gonna draw from. So that's where I would kind of like open us up to next.
112R-003: Maybe I'll share. What I'll do is I'll share a screen with a brainstorming. We did on topics last time.
112R-003: To help us with that discussion.
112R-003: These we had 3 slides.
112R-003: And also here is a
112R-003: link to that
112R-003: which I'll also put in the chat.
112R-003: There's also a link to this.
112R-003: But we had our 3 different teams, and I actually don't remember
112R-003: who was on which that's not necessarily super super important. But we can see there's some places where we overlap in them
112R-003: in some places where people's ideas were unique. So
112R-003: thoughts on where you see overlaps where you see anything that you want to promote or suggest waits for the next wave, or anything like that.
112R-003: Not sure. Go ahead.
112S-001: So I don't think we covered it here explicitly. But
112S-001: after like doing some research when we between the 2 meetings.
112S-001: I would like to maybe add
112S-001: and this would be like
112S-001: this. We couldn't add a question about this exactly, but I would like to add, like a computational aspect to the questions. And I sort of just wanted to throw that idea out there.
112S-001: So like, when you're doing a cross product and adopt and adopt product. Normally, we just write it out by hand. But computers are becoming a bigger part of math, and I would like to see that.
112S-001: like in math education.
112R-003: One of the things to the context for that to keep in mind
112R-003: is that we're going to be
112R-003: kind of doing things incrementally
112R-003: where we we are going to try to focus on things that are a little bit more short answer in the in the 1st wave. But we'll we're going to be including more and more formats of questions as the project progresses.
112R-003: So because because I think almost everyone in part as part of the project is also very interested in actually affecting computation. The tools we use to affect computation. So
112R-003: so I'm noticing
112R-003: there's a span is showing up in a couple of places
112R-003: linear independence is showing up in a couple of places. David, are those? Can you remind me in the textbook.
112R-003: How those how span and linear independence are kind of organized.
112A-005: Yeah, those sections.
112A-005: So the section on span is section 2.3,
112A-005: and the section on linear independence is section 2.4. So they're adjacent sections
112A-005: to one another.
112R-003: So one of the things to keep in mind. One of the constraints that we're operating within is that when we conduct this, so the the part that you didn't see. The sample cognitive interview is that we actually gave a specific
112R-003: little excerpt of reading from one specific section of the active calculus textbook. And then, in response to that one location of reading, they were given some questions.
112R-003: So
112R-003: one of the things to be sensitive to, and the questions you develop is at the point of the reading. What knowledge can you assume? The student has to work with at and up to that point in the reading.
112A-005: So, you know, when I think about this question.
112A-005: I can't help sort of thinking about a bigger picture like, would it be important to choose 3 topics that are kind of spaced
112A-005: throughout the semester? Or is there a problem if they're kind of
112A-005: all in a matter of like a couple of weeks, or how do we? Wanna
112A-005: how do we want to think about that? I mean, independent of the
112A-005: mathematical content.
112R-003: And it's a great question for the whole group.
112T-007: I I mean. I noticed this last time when we did this, that I thought was kind of interesting was that you know the way the groups were sort of split up with the students together, and then the faculty in their own groups that the faculty kind of focused on span and linearly linear independence, and the students focused on the Eigenvalues and I
112T-007: and I thought that was interesting, that and I would suspect some of that is, those of us who have taught this material
112T-007: recognize that the
112T-007: topics that our students seem to understand the least are span and linear independence, which is probably why we sort of thought to go there. They're fundamental but theoretical. And then the students right? The topics that they see in other classes and things like that tend to be the Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors. So kind of the the importance of that tool
112T-007: across a math curriculum probably stands out to. I don't know I'm guessing for the students a little bit, but I I thought it was kind of interesting, so I might suggest that we do at least one of the kind of more theoretical topics that I always find challenging to get my students to understand. And then maybe one of the topics that the students feel is really like kind of fundamental. So like something faculty, think of as fundamental something that students think of as fundamental, even though these aren't. I mean, I would agree. They're all fundamental.
112R-003: And actually, so, Jennifer, actually, I'll give you like, this is total sneak, peek, insider knowledge. Everybody. Okay. You didn't hear it from me.
112R-003: But in the other linear algebra star team, Eigenvalues Eigenvectors came up actually from
112R-003: from the kind of textbook author.
112R-003: because that insight that you just had because they were thinking about results that students depend on in later applications for exactly what you pointed out. And so it showed it showed up in a different place, not from the students. It actually showed up from a different place for similar to that reason. So that's really fascinating.
112R-003: But you didn't hear it from me.
112S-002: I do have a question kind of a side topic. Are we allowed to say name so like if I am, I allowed to say, like Jennifer.
112R-003: Yeah, do not. Yeah with yes, because we will. That that's fine. Yes.
112S-002: Okay, perfect, perfect. So
112S-002: that's quite interesting that you said that, Jennifer, because me
112S-002: and Joshua, you can by all means like intervene and
112S-002: add what you need to say. But when we were in our little meeting that our little zoom room thing.
112S-002: that is one of the things we talked about that it is one thing that reoccurs in other subjects, and also we picked Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors because it was kind of in the middle of the textbook. So it kind of aligns with what David said, like picking something from different parts of the textbook, and we picked something from the middle. So then we could gauge what we needed to know what was needed from the beginning, and also how we could continue so. It was kind of
112S-002: the best of both worlds of both of what y'all said. So.
112T-008: And I'd just like to say that I really like and support. We didn't put it on our list, but I like the idea of having Eigenvectors and Eigenvalues as one of the topics
112T-008: for the reasons that have been discussed. And I think there's some really nice
112T-008: conceptual students jump to the computational. But I think these are really nice conceptual understandings of what Eigenvectors and Eigenvalues are doing, that I think I like to kind of highlight with students. And so I think that would be a really good, really good place to focus. And it kind of gets away from that sort of chapter. 2
112T-008: nexus of things. We we looked at.
112R-003: Where does it? What what section do Eigenvalues? Eigenvectors show up in.
112A-005: They're in Chapter 4.
112A-005: So you know, chapters
112A-005: or sections
112A-005: 4.1 4.2 and 4.3.
112A-005: So I guess I guess I'd say I really appreciate that all the comments
112A-005: that I've heard so far, and I'm in agreement
112A-005: with with all of them. And one of the things I love about the subject is everything's connected.
112A-005: So I mean, I could imagine a question about Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors that also relates to linear independence
112A-005: in in a way, too. So so I think, you know, in some sense it's not an either.
112A-005: or but it's a yes, and kind of kind of thing, but I think I think having something about Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors would be a great idea, and especially just in my own experience with students. It's such a. It seems like such a weird concept
112A-005: when you when you 1st see it, and then you start digging into it. It's like, Wow, this is really amazing.
112A-005: So I think I think there's a lot of potential there. So I would, I would very much support.
112A-005: You know, this being a topic.
112R-003: I'm just kind of like, also bouncing back to see if there's others that we haven't reflected on.
112R-003: So invertibility shows up
112R-003: in both of those other 2 groups.
112T-008: Is that in chapter 3, David.
112A-005: Yes, it is.
112T-008: I did have one minor concern, a topic that's near and dear to my heart. But I worry about including it would be the orthogonality dot products
112T-008: cross products.
112T-008: I don't believe cross Products appears in David's book, at least not directly. And I think
112T-008: dot products doesn't come up with orthogonality until till Chapter 6. I think it's going to be.
112T-008: Not all courses are going to get there, at least substantially during the semester, and so that that would be my only concern. I really like
112T-008: it as a topic, but I'm not sure it. It kind of fits going linearly through the book in a semester for some of the courses.
112T-008: we can. We can discuss that because I think I usually get there at least
112T-008: significantly, through chapter 6. But I think maybe some of the courses we were saying didn't.
112T-007: Yeah, I I agree with that. And I think you know, obviously, we're picking starting places, not ending places. So
112T-007: I think we can certainly get, maybe in the long run to some of these other things. So like I guess I would advocate
112T-007: for doing like sort of the Eigenvalue Eigenvector stuff, and then maybe say linear independence, because part of me feels like if we can learn if we can figure out how to write good linear independence questions.
112T-007: Then I think
112T-007: kind of there's a that will lead to ways to write good span questions.
112T-007: or that would lead to how to write good pivot questions or invertibility questions like, because those things are related. I think
112T-007: if, as a starting point.
112T-007: and I would, I would suggest that either span or linear independence. I kind of like linear independence better. But but I think if we do one of those that will give us some insight into how to do the other.
112R-003: Does anyone anyone want to try to take a shot at articulating
112R-003: like, if you could put in your perspective, what does this group seem to be leaning towards settling on for our topics. What does it feel like
112R-003: from your perspective?
112A-005: Well, I guess I would say the the
112A-005: 2 topics
112A-005: that I've heard suggest that our Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors in linear
112A-005: independence
112A-005: if others. If others disagree. Th, then, yeah, I'd like like to hear that.
112T-008: You know I like those 2, and and heard both you, David and and Jennifer
112T-008: supporting those I I think, with a 3rd topic. I I like the idea of invertibility. I also like an idea we haven't really discussed very much which was
112T-008: locations of pivots and solutions, which I think is early in the course and and fundamental to understanding lots of stuff that goes on later. So I I could
112T-008: that would be something from chapter one, whereas invertibility. Chapter 3, I. I could go either way on that, and would like to hear what people
112T-008: think about those, or or if you have other ideas as well.
112T-007: I agree. I like the pivot
112T-007: stuff. And I and I also having taught linear algebra out of a lot of different textbook. Well, not a lot of out of some other textbooks before really enjoying this 1. 1 of my favorite things about
112T-007: David's book has been the way it frames things around pivots.
112T-007: Because I feel like that's a
112T-007: that has been a much better framing for me to be able to explain other concepts later. So I really.
112T-007: I think it's
112T-007: not unique to David's, but it is still kind of special about David's compared to what else is out there.
112R-003: So how do we
112R-003: feel about this? And so before, before I ask us, how do we feel about this? Let me actually make one prefacing remark.
112R-003: that we're very cognizant of
112R-003: is that with different topics.
112R-003: different members of
112R-003: the group
112R-003: are coming in with different levels of experience and comfort. And even they're they're good there. There are going to be times where the group grapples with a topic that's totally outside somebody's bubble, right? Which is perfectly fine, and in fact, necessary, because in those we're not, we're not all here to be like the ultimate master. Whatever right we are here to provide
112R-003: differing reactions to what's being proposed. And if if we're all at the same exact level of experience and comfort, there's no differences right? And so the differences in our comfort levels are important and part of the process. And so with that in mind, we're not basing this decision on
112R-003: what are the things that most encompass your expertise. It's about what are the things that you think are that you are curious about that you are most curious about. For our 1st wave of how students will grapple with them when answering the question in that way.
112R-003: how do we feel about having eigenvalues, Eigenvectors?
112R-003: Linear independence, which I'm not coupling with span. I'm just. I have linear independence jotted down
112R-003: and pivots.
112R-003: So Eigenvalues, Eigenvectors.
112R-003: linear independence
112R-003: pivots.
112R-003: and the relationships to solutions.
112R-003: How do we feel about that informal pull. Wise.
112R-003: We're doing that. We're doing the thumbs up. Poll. Okay.
112R-003: that looks like convergence to me. Okay.
112R-003: that you could put you could put that in the notes, then, David, so this, these are our
112R-003: or Eigenvalues Eigenvectors, linear independence pivot. And then the other thing to consider is that
112R-003: cause. One of the things that Darren brought up really important is that like in in the textbook presentation.
112R-003: there's a certain order. There's a certain dependence of topics right there. But consider that in the context of a cognitive interview the student will only be
112R-003: ask to read. This is our design. If if this changes, I'll let you know. Based on my current understanding, the design is that they would only read, for example, an excerpt from the Eigenvalue Eigenvector section, and they would only answer a cluster of questions from that section.
112R-003: So we don't have to architect a flow of questions that draws upon all 3 topics together, right? These can exist independently from each other, which takes some of the pressure off of our design as well.
112R-003: So
112R-003: okay.
112R-003: with that kind of as established as a transitional point. Is anybody in favor of just kind of like
112R-003: taking about a 3 to 5 min
112R-003: break, leg, stretch anything? Does anybody need a break. Would this be a good time for that? Let's do that. Let's take a break. That was one of my notes to self last time, just really quickly, and then we come back. Let's go ahead and crack open the textbook and see if we can narrow this down a little bit. Then within those topics great.
112S-002: Ms Jo, thank you so much for letting us have a little break. I get very antsy. I don't like movie theaters or movies, because sitting for a long period of time gets me
112S-002: super Antsy. So just like moving great, awesome.
112R-003: Yeah.
112A-005: I think we should have a dance break.
112S-002: That's always fun.
112A-005: You could lead at Cisa.
112R-003: Get my get my cardio in during my star team meeting.
112A-005: Absolutely.
112S-002: People. Sometimes people sometimes think that like when I start moving a lot, it's because I'm bored or I'm tired, or it's it's just I just need to move hence. Why I dance because I'm just moving all the time. Nonstop.
112R-003: Yeah, many people do.
112R-003: I? Just recently, I'm I'm sitting in my my
112R-003: costco rolly chair right now. But I have another space that is available to me that has a standing desk.
112R-003: And so sometimes, when I'm just like, I just can't take it anymore, I can go work at the standing desk. I didn't understand them for a long time, but I have a new understanding and appreciation for the notion of the standing desk.
112R-003: So
112R-003: okay, I was just what was I gonna look for? I was just gonna look for
112R-003: a link to
112R-003: the textbook.
112R-003: I was actually gonna ask slash. Suggest
112R-003: Isa or Joshua, if one of you might be willing
112R-003: to. Actually, we could help you do this if you don't have the link at your fingertips.
112A-005: But I just put a link in the chat.
112R-003: To the textbook.
112A-005: Yeah, it doesn't. It doesn't look like it's an active link. So maybe I'll send it again. There you go.
112R-003: But yeah, if one of you either.
112A-005: I would be willing.
112R-003: To
112R-003: go ahead. Go ahead, David!
112A-005: Oh, I'm I'm sorry. That's not the Runestone version, but I I guess at this point. It's not
112A-005: too important.
112R-003: Oh.
112R-003: it no, it probably it isn't at this point. Because if if we're not actually planning on
112R-003: entering in any content which we could. We can switch over to that if we decide, we want to experimentally enter in some content. Okay, but if you would be willing to just like, open up the link to the textbook and share your screen.
112R-003: and then that'll kinda
112R-003: be a centerpiece for our
112R-003: conversation here.
112A-005: I'm sorry. Who was it that you asked to do that?
112R-003: I was asking either Joshua or Isa if one of them would be willing to.
112R-003: You can do rock paper scissors if you need to.
112R-003: Awesome. Thank you.
112R-003: So it's I'm kind of. This is my 1st time seeing. So that so, David, this is not in this is not on Runestone right now.
112A-005: Right.
112R-003: But it I'm
112R-003: but the like. The layout of the actual textbook content is virtually
112R-003: the same.
112A-005: Yeah.
112R-003: It just doesn't have any of those like runestone functionalities or anything like that. But it's.
112A-005: That's exactly it. Yeah.
112R-003: Perfect. Okay.
112R-003: get bigger.
112R-003: Alright. Since we have, we have the
112R-003: Chapter 4 open and displayed
112R-003: right now. And so I'm just, gonna I'm gonna really try not to be in the driver's seat at this time for that. I just want people to kind of like
112R-003: jump in where where you see a portion. So I think things to be thinking about.
112R-003: since our what our our goal is to ultimately get toward crafting
112R-003: about, you know, hopefully 3 hopefully, at least one reading question per topic that we've decided about right. So our objective is, can we come up with one either adapted or completely novel reading question for eigenvalue vectors, and then one for the others and one for the others. That's our kind of a soft objective right now.
112R-003: So thinking about both.
112R-003: Thinking about both. What portion
112R-003: of the section? If there's a portion like, if it's a long, would it be clipped? What is the reading portion you would want the student to see. And then, in the context of seeing that, what question would you want the student to answer?
112R-003: Kind of those together?
112A-005: I guess, as someone who has a little bit of experience with this book.
112A-005: I probably suggest we look in either section 4.1, which is kind of an intuitive.
112A-005: You know more more about this topic from an intuitive point of view, or section 4.2, which is.
112A-005: you know, starting to get more.
112A-005: you know. Think of it more conceptually
112A-005: and also computationally.
112R-003: So that I just something that's catching my eye. That you're scrolling past right now is in activity 4.1
112R-003: point 2
112R-003: part a there. So we have the definition as an important geometric interpret geometric interpretation.
112R-003: Right? That we'll investigate here. A suppose V is a non-zero vector and that lambda is a scalar.
112R-003: What is the geometric relationship between? So that's that's a great idea. That's a rather great example of a nice, open-ended question
112R-003: that
112R-003: could be adapted in some way or something along those same lines could be created in this section.
112S-001: So part
112S-001: the
112S-001: is asking us to verify that the Eigenvector condition holds, which I bring up because I always like verify questions. Specifically, because in a lot of like later math classes, we're asked to do proofs. But it's never really stated explicitly, in sort of the earlier math classes that you take
112S-001: but it's like looking back at some of my older notes. It's the verify questions that at least to me seem the most like groups. So I think that might be a good reading question.
112R-003: So actually, while while you're on that thought, if everybody doesn't mind Joshua, could you? Or in any Joshua and everyone so, looking at that as an example.
112R-003: Is there anything about the way that's currently stated that you might use as a springboard
112R-003: to expand or change? What's being asked? There.
112T-008: What I tend to do once the students have encountered this material for the 1st time before we do any.
112T-008: Here's how you find the eigenvalues of a given matrix. Something like that is a question like this. But it's more of a
112T-008: multiple. It's kind of multiple part. Here's a here's a matrix. Here's some some given vectors
112T-008: is is each one of these an Eigenvector or not? And and why, that's the kind of it's getting at the same thing where they have to rather than do some big computation. They just compute a times, the vector
112T-008: does it line up with the the same direction or not, and and so, but I give them some of which are Eigenvectors, some of which are not Eigenvectors, and they have to sort of sort out which ones are are, which I don't know if that's an improvement. But that's the way I've approached it, as far as in class exercises.
112R-003: You know what I'm gonna I'm gonna propose at this time that I'm gonna start up a blank document in our star team folder so that as we kind of like hash out these proto questions here, we can actually just start writing them, and everyone can see them
112R-003: and adapt them.
112R-003: Let me do that right now.
112A-005: I've been doing that in the notes.
112A-005: Oh, let's see.
112R-003: Yeah, let me.
112A-005: Confusing.
112R-003: And it should. Yeah, it's something that should exist additionally.
112R-003: So maybe I'll just capture what you did, and I'll just grab those over.
112R-003: Because, like, for example, what Darren just said, the actual
112R-003: just the actual question, the way you posed it is something I'd like to capture.
112A-005: Sure.
112R-003: I'm gonna temporarily
112R-003: all of this
112R-003: developed questions and naming can be
112R-003: interrogated later.
112R-003: So here's a i'll just share a link to this. Everyone can edit this and add to this. So rather than you having me trying to transcribe what you're saying.
112R-003: So there is just a blank document
112R-003: and doesn't have to be beautiful.
112R-003: but just to capture the ones you're thinking of. And one of the things that would be helpful is
112R-003: if the actual section number that you're feeling that that's appropriate with it, that that it corresponds to in the textbook. Notate that somehow, in the question you're writing.
112R-003: So which section actual section number
112R-003: are we in now?
112R-003: 4.1 still 4.1. Okay?
112R-003: 4 point. So.
112R-003: yeah. And if there's something in, I guess. For example, if the the question that's similar that you're thinking about is similar to what's going on in 4.1 point 2. Make a little note about that.
112T-008: I really like to to give questions that some of the ideas that are here in 4 1.2
112T-008: section 4, 1.2. I I like to give questions that really get at this usefulness early on as well, because I really like the way it's kind of front and center in in David's coverage here. But like this.
112T-008: for instance, question with the with the graph that's showing right now.
112T-008: I like these questions where they know something about how a acts on v. 1 and v. 2. And they have to
112T-008: say how a acts on a certain linear combination of v 1 and v, 2, because
112T-008: later on they have to do that, but much more elaborately, with higher powers of A and things like that. And so so I don't know if there's a question we could fashion in that way. But I really like the getting the the concept
112T-008: out there.
112R-003: And these visuals
112R-003: or something that are going to be available. So the the whole textbook will be available to the student at the time of the interview that will actually be in the textbook.
112R-003: and they will be able to if they want to. They're like, Oh, hey! I think I want to answer your question, but I want to actually jump up here to this other chapter and check this definition. They are totally free to do that at the time of the interview, so they'll be able to interact with any of the contents available content that's available to them
112R-003: in or out of the textbook, for that matter, if they want to jump over to Google and Google something fine.
112S-001: So. This appeared earlier, but it sort of relates to like flipping
112S-001: flipping how a graph is oriented.
112S-001: I'm not sure if I've seen a question like this before, but I'd like
112S-001: a question, or I'd like to have seen a question that like
112S-001: asks.
112S-001: here is a quadratic equation.
112S-001: Use eigenvalues and eigenvectors to like flip this by 45 degrees, or something.
112S-001: So like just another geometry question, but working more with like two-dimensional and 3 dimensional graphs.
112A-005: I'm I'm so I I would just like to make sure that I really understand what
112A-005: what you said, Joshua. Could. Could you kind of repeat that, and
112A-005: maybe flesh it out.
112S-001: Yeah.
112A-005: Bit more.
112S-001: So
112S-001: like. Part of what this
112S-001: is covering is sort of geometrically shifting a grass orientation.
112S-001: And I remember explicitly covering that like in a geometry class. So what would happen if you turn like a parabola by 45 degrees, and how would it look?
112S-001: And then we would get questions about if it's still a function or not.
112S-001: But I at least I don't remember it being covered, for like more complex, 2 dimensional and 3 dimensional graphs so like if I got the saddle shape.
112S-001: and I wanted to reorient that shape by some amount of degrees in 3 dimensions, like, I would. I would like to see sort of like a question like that.
112S-001: or
112S-001: like I forget. It's called like a hyperboloid. 2 sheet or something like that where you can shift it, but it's access would be shifted somehow. I think, like I think it would just be cool to use linear algebra and connect it to
112S-001: like Calgary or something.
112R-003: Kind of apply an operator for the orientation of the whole space.
112R-003: That's really, yeah, that's really interesting.
112R-003: I think that I also am really interested in
112R-003: people's ability to visualize spatial effects. Things.
112R-003: I was. And the comment that you sent to me, Joshua, earlier, I think it was you had emailed it to me.
112R-003: or I don't know if we talked about in the meeting, or if you emailed it to me.
112R-003: but about like being able to
112R-003: actually visualize
112R-003: things. And I was recently reviewing a paper where somebody was really concerned in
112R-003: electrical engineering, with people being able to understand electrical fields. And so they were actually
112R-003: working on an AR
112R-003: tool that the person could actually see and kind of like be in the 3D space of the field and understand the shape of the field. And so
112R-003: it's like, well, and I think yours was about actually understanding just kind of like the 3D graphical
112R-003: things
112R-003: so
112R-003: kind of like right along that same interest set.
112R-003: do we? Do? We want to
112R-003: take a little bit of a delve into each of the 3 sections to
112R-003: We've looked at the the Eigenvalue Eigenvector.
112R-003: Section 4.1. Here for a little bit. Do we want to look at more of that. However, we want to to do. This is fine. Do we want to take a foray through linear independence?
112R-003: To see if there's something in there that kind of jumps out that people want to try imagining questions for.
112R-003: which is in
112R-003: 2.4. Yes.
112A-005: Yeah, sure I'd be. I'd be fine with that.
112R-003: And this one brings us right back to what Darren was saying in 2 2. It's
112R-003: yeah, 2.4 to point 2
112R-003: down in question. C there.
112R-003: and looking at the pivot positions, how can you determine whether columns of matrix are linear, dependent or independent? There's a connect nice connection.
112T-007: Yes, for linear dependence and independence.
112T-007: I don't know exactly what the question would look like, but I would if we're thinking about it as a reading question like, what would I want a student to be able to do after sort of reading the text and maybe working through
112T-007: like the preview activity or whatever. I I think.
112T-007: ability to kind of
112T-007: understand the definition. So some kind of question that asks them.
112T-007: you know, either by an example of trying to, you know, like giving an example of.
112T-007: you know, some vectors that are linearly independent or dependent, or something like that, but to something that actually make makes them go back to the definition and check whether the definition applies, and try and understand that, or putting the definition in their own words that kind of thing.
112T-007: because it's it's okay to get to pivots and things like that eventually, but
112T-007: without understanding what the definition is, it just becomes a rule that doesn't transfer somewhere else.
112S-001: I really like that idea, too. And when, like a question of coming up with your own system.
112S-001: or like linearly dependent system.
112S-001: I think would be a really good question.
112A-005: So what if we had a question, maybe where we gave them 2 vectors, 2 linearly independent vectors
112A-005: and said and said something like, add a 3rd vector
112A-005: so that the set is linearly dependent.
112T-008: I really like that question, David. I've
112T-008: I've asked it
112T-008: both ways in succession. Give a 3rd vector. That makes it linearly dependent and then give a 3rd vector that makes it linearly independent.
112T-008: and
112T-008: it's interesting the different way students approach that because once they know the sort of pivot
112T-008: sort of algorithms for doing things. They they may launch into some
112T-008: sort of convoluted process without realizing they can well, just add the 2 vectors together. Here's a dependent vector for the, you know, to fill out the set or something like that. So I, yeah, I think that
112T-008: says a lot about how they think about
112T-008: dependence and independence.
112T-008: Jennifer, I also like go ahead. Sorry.
112R-003: I was just gonna ask Jennifer for you to kind of follow up on like with those suggestions. How are you feel? How does that resonate with you as far as the goal of drawing on the definition.
112T-007: Yeah, and yeah, I think.
112T-007: I think.
112T-007: well, I think I'd want to think about it a little more. I mean, I definitely like that idea. I think that's a i think the given example is a useful way to get at A at a
112T-007: The students understanding.
112T-007: I'm I'm also thinking back to Joshua's comment about sort of the verify thing where they have to rely on the definition. And so maybe those are a couple of different ways to approach it, too, like.
112T-007: you know, using the definition to verify something
112T-007: as well as give an example of.
112R-003: And then somebody was gonna say something, and I cut them off, and I don't remember who it was.
112T-008: That was me I was just going to go back to. I think we went past it. Activity 2.4 point 2, which is
112T-008: oh, right there, where you where you are, I guess.
112T-008: A a question that maybe connects the ideas as Jennifer saying that
112T-008: says something like
112T-008: show that W. 3 is a linear combination of w. 1 and W. 2, kind of like part B here, and then asking the follow up question.
112T-008: are these vectors linearly dependent or linearly independent? And why? To just connect that definition with
112T-008: the concepts of dependent and independent? Because I sometimes I, you know, students can show that W.
112T-008: Combination of w. 1 of W. 2. But they don't get the relationship to dependence then. And I I don't know. I like. The way that Part B is is kind of getting at that.
112R-003: So kind of a 2 parter Darren. So then demonstrate the linear combination. But then actually, explicitly, okay, are these linear, independent or linear.
112T-008: And whether you make them dependent or independent. Yeah, I think the ones in B there are independent. But
112R-003: Yeah.
112T-007: I'm just thinking about cause I I know I know my students in this material, right? They want to jump to the matrix and row reduce.
112T-007: And if we're really trying to think about the definition.
112T-007: you know, maybe
112T-007: giving them a more abstract.
112T-007: you know linear combination
112T-007: that then, like.
112T-007: I don't know. I really have to think about it, but thinking about, you know.
112T-007: giving them a linear combination.
112T-007: And.
112T-007: you know, asking them to sort of
112T-007: verify that one of those vectors is a linear combination, you know, like giving.
112T-007: you know, giving this a
112T-007: the
112T-007: right, like a linear combination equaling 0. And then explain why one of these vectors is a linear combination of the other vectors, or something like where they have to kind of do the little. The sort of play around with those equations
112T-007: a little bit to really understand writing one vector as a linear combination of the other vectors.
112T-007: Given some kind of algebraic expression of the vectors.
112S-002: Ms. Jennifer, I really like where you're where you were going with that, because that's
112S-002: how it made sense to me doing some having a problem where I had to manipulate and
112S-002: similar to what you were saying. I
112S-002: I really like that type of question.
112R-003: Unless there's other things that are immediately jumping out.
112R-003: about the linear independent section. Do we want to take a little stroll through
112R-003: invertibility.
112A-005: So I think the 3rd topic we had was about pivots.
112R-003: Oh, not invertebrates.
112A-005: So that would be section like 1 point.
112R-003: That's a different part of my napkins scritching here. Pivot.
112T-007: So with with pivots. I really like the idea of checking
112T-007: like sort of giving examples of a matrix and
112T-007: kind of is, they're kind of related to sort of true false questions, or something, but like where they're not necessarily all in reduced row, echelon form. But kind of you know where you can sort of see what the next step would be
112T-007: to get students to realize like you can.
112T-007: you need, like, you kind of need the the reduced rationalon form to see where there's a pivot, just because there's a 1 in the 1st column, or, you know, a leading one doesn't make it a pivot. Yet
112T-007: so kind of these.
112T-007: you know.
112S-002: Slightly.
112T-007: But yeah.
112T-007: so kind of
112T-007: being able to decide
112T-007: even just whether they have enough information at that stage as to whether something's a pivot.
112T-007: I yeah. I also, I also think,
112T-007: kind of getting that getting to the difference between, like the kind of the
112T-007: the pivot as a number and the position that that's in right. A lot of times this at this stage, in this.
112T-007: in this class, trying to kind of understand
112T-007: like that, a matrix can have
112T-007: pivot positions without you
112T-007: having reduced it right like that, that those things are related to the original matrix, even without the row reduced
112T-007: matrix.
112T-007: But again I'd have to think I'd have to think a little bit more about what I'd really want that to look like.
112A-005: But I think
112A-005: you know, I think I think what Jen
112A-005: just says is really important, because it's it's connected. That that idea seems to show up over and over again.
112A-005: and and there's some kind of simple like
112A-005: you can have have more. You can have more pivot positions.
112A-005: Then there are rows in the matrix
112A-005: or columns in the matrix. And that kind of thinking
112A-005: is really really important.
112A-005: You know, later on.
112A-005: when you're looking at concepts like span and linear independence. So I like that idea.
112T-007: Yeah. Actually, I think I think, David, in some of these sections you had, you have questions that are
112T-007: about, you know the maximum number of pivots a certain matrix could have, and things like that. And I think those make good reading questions, too, like
112T-007: to explain the maximum number of pivots. You know.
112T-007: a certain size matrix could have.
112T-007: And you know, how do you know that
112T-007: I think this is also a good section? For give example.
112T-007: give an example of a matrix which has.
112T-007: you know.
112T-007: 2 pivots.
112T-007: but is.
112T-007: but has a unique solution. Give an example, you know, like some of those kinds of questions.
112T-007: Make good reading questions. I'm looking at your principle. 1.4 point 5 right? That
112R-003: If you asked it. Yeah. And so like, when you think, think of those, if you ask the question, give an example.
112R-003: Matrix with these characteristics.
112R-003: you wouldn't want the
112R-003: well we can always ask. So like in the in the cognitive interview, we can ask them to provide an example of the matrix that has these characteristics, and then we can follow up with.
112R-003: Tell us how you arrived at that. Tell us how you know that right? But we can also architect the question itself.
112R-003: because
112R-003: we want that we want to be able to elicit there between the lines, thinking
112R-003: in a normal, in like an organic classroom setting. Not just when they're in the cognitive interview, when we're following up
112R-003: so like when you think about those
112R-003: what would you want to follow up with? What would you want them to
112R-003: highlight
112R-003: in their process
112R-003: and dig for?
112R-003: Has anybody spotted any questions?
112R-003: In this section, or the prior ones, eigenvalues linear independence.
112R-003: that they like the question as it is now, and they they can see just maybe minor modification to the question.
112R-003: have any really grabbed your eye yet.
112T-007: I think, in in the pivot section question 3 at the end. Right? This is a give the give an example. One that was probably what I was thinking of a little bit.
112T-007: yeah. So
112T-007: so we can sort of
112T-007: build on that kind of idea.
112R-003: I'm gonna copy paste this as
112R-003: in there, and to our inspiration list as well.
112T-007: And and I know, having assigned that question a lot, the guarantee part is always really confusing for the students.
112T-007: So maybe breaking this down in some way
112T-007: about.
112T-007: you know, kind of starting with an example that has that property, and then
112T-007: you know
112T-007: whether there's anything they can say about uniqueness whether there's anything they can say about infinitely many solutions, and.
112T-007: you know, get them, maybe to explain what sort of feature they're looking at in their example, to decide that
112T-007: I mean, does my students have a hard time, with the difference between guarantee and possible.
112R-003: That's really great.
112T-008: This is jumping topics just a little bit, but
112T-008: in terms of 2.4 linear independence.
112T-008: Likewise, at the end of the section in the exercises. There are
112T-008: like Number 3 and number 4. I really like
112T-008: questions like that. Maybe maybe we we could think about not doing it in terms of an arbitrary number of vectors. But you know you can ask similar questions.
112T-008: about how you know if if vectors are dependent, and if you add more vectors to the set.
112T-008: it remains dependent. If they understand what dependent is, they would understand why that is. And that's same kind of concept with linear independence.
112T-008: in the next question, and number 4,
112T-008: definitely. Some things I think we could build off of there. And those kinds of questions.
112S-002: I do like that
112S-002: for
112S-002: for 3 and 4, and also the previous problems we were looking at in the other chapter. I do like that. They start with A
112S-002: BC on number 4 and A on number 3. I like how it starts with an if, then and then afterwards it takes out the if, then, where students have to figure out which part is the given and which part is not the given, I
112S-002: I know it sometimes becomes difficult when you're so trained to look for the if, then, and then you don't have it. People tend to
112S-002: kind of
112S-002: a little
112S-002: scared from there to determine which part. So I like how it like leads, and then it takes it out. So then
112S-002: students are able to determine what is given, and not.
112R-003: And anything that I'm typing into this
112R-003: document about a question ideas that if if I don't capture it correctly, just do surgery on whatever I've typed in here
112R-003: and overwrite anything I've put in there, or add to it at all.
112T-008: Sorry I was having trouble getting unmuted. I think. Number 7. There you scrolled by is a really nice type of question as well,
112T-008: but
112T-008: just having them think about
112T-008: whether or not such a configuration is possible. And then what the
112T-008: our ref type of matrix would have to look like.
112R-003: Hmm.
112S-001: Similarly.
112S-001: I really like Question 8. When we start to prove different things or different properties that, like sets of numbers, have, or properties that numbers have and matrices might not have.
112S-001: Those are like anytime. I get that type of question. I get really excited because it's sort of
112S-001: more of the theory side of math, at least in my mind. So I really do like to appreciate questions like this.
112R-003: And to kind of round that out. Since we have some, we have some baselines that we we'd like to springboard from from pivots and linear independence.
112R-003: is there something that jumps out in the Eigenvalues, Eigenvectors
112R-003: as an example, baseline question or questions?
112R-003: I think these are really useful for in between now, and when we meet again.
112R-003: To kind of seed people's thinking.
112R-003: be able to see these very concretely.
112R-003: I know, Joshua, you had mentioned some that really struck you as very interesting ones.
112S-001: The 1st ones.
112S-001: I mean, I like these because you get to like engage with sage and it's sort of like it's moving
112S-001: map onto like the computational side. So anytime, I see a question like this.
112S-001: I would really like it. I'm not sure how, yet, at least to develop
112S-001: like a computer based question. But if
112S-001: we could somehow combine this with a more like theoretical side of math, I think it would make really good.
112S-001: really good connections and really good questions.
112S-002: When when
112S-002: when students are able to engage, does it tell you if like, if they answer the question, does it tell you if they're right or wrong, or
112S-002: anything.
112S-001: Yep, and so.
112R-003: Oh, you mean in this, in the stage. So is that what you're asking.
112S-002: Yes.
112R-003: Oh, okay. Okay.
112S-001: Yes, and that's 1 of the benefits that at least I got from using it. It's sort of just like a calculator, and it can do more advanced forms of math. You just sort of have to like. Learn all of the syntax and the typing which is annoying. I'm not going to say that's annoying, but if you know it, it's sort of it acts as a calculator.
112S-001: And so, in the same way, like people in middle and high school are able to just check their answers. You could be given like linear algebra, a linear algebra question and actually check your answer. And then you could take it to your teacher with like more
112S-001: in-depth questions and more like technical questions, to help with your understanding.
112S-002: Thank you.
112S-002: So.
112T-007: In the in the Eigenvalue Eigenvector section. I actually really like something that's like in the preview question
112T-007: in this section which has them do like use the linearity
112T-007: to rewrite. So it's in one, yeah, 4.1 in the preview question. The last part.
112T-007: There's a list of yeah, this 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
112T-007: because that I mean, that's something that they have to do over and over again to actually apply. Do any of the applications, and I,
112T-007: my my students, could do that here.
112T-007: but then they would forget that they could do that, and then they would forget that they could do that, and then they would forget they could do that.
112T-007: And so I think, in terms of reading questions, having them do something like that. Computation for sort of a power like, you know, kind of like number 6 A to the 4th
112T-007: times. v. 1.
112T-007: Just doing that kind of computation, even in a reading question to sort of remind them that they can.
112T-007: You know, when they have this eigenvalue equation.
112T-007: Is that they can rewrite these powers of a matrix. So so I, even if it's in a reading questions, just kind of computing this, and then
112T-007: maybe sort of trying to generalize. So, could you do this for any power of a explain why you could do that.
112A-005: Yeah, I think that's a good point. Students sometimes say, well.
112A-005: how can I do that? Because I don't know you didn't tell me what
112A-005: the matrix and the vector are. And it's like, well, but
112A-005: you have. You have enough information. It's just presented
112A-005: in in a different way. And I think this
112A-005: goes to the conversation we had when we're thinking about this section a little bit earlier, just about you know how
112A-005: these concepts are gonna be used in the future. So yeah, I think I think this would be, you know, kind of
112A-005: inappropriate.
112A-005: you know. Place to bring that in.
112S-001: In building off of what both of you said. I wanted to bring up the point.
112S-001: because I haven't. I don't. At least I don't think I've seen the question here, but the explain questions.
112S-001: I think it would be good to have more writing of like actual sentences and paragraphs in math.
112S-001: Because at least in my mind, a lot of math classes I take are super test oriented.
112S-001: and I never get to write about anything, and I like writing.
112S-001: So I think an explained question would sort of give me the chance to
112S-001: like expound on a mathematical idea. More than just
112S-001: solving a problem and writing the answer.
112S-001: yeah.
112T-008: Oh, okay, yeah. Go ahead.
112T-007: Oh, I was gonna say, yeah, I can see how it's like problem number 6, A to the 4th times. v, 1,
112T-007: you know, to to show how to how it could be written, and then say, explain why this process would work for any power of a or something like that.
112T-008: Yeah, I was just gonna say, I
112T-008: to follow up on Joshua's remarks. Number 3, a few above that has a couple of nice explained questions which
112T-008: I think would be
112T-008: helpful. You could, even
112T-008: in some of the later ones in Number 3 you could ask them to explain a little more, but A and B in number 3 have it explicitly. This is down in the exercises down at the end of the section.
112T-008: Yeah, that that one, and I think Jennifer was talking about number 6 a couple below that.
112T-007: Oh, I was on the preview question.
112T-008: Okay. Then at 8 to the 4th as well. Okay, I guess I was looking at this one.
112R-003: But, Darren, which one in the exercises were you looking at.
112T-008: 3 was what I was looking at with the explained questions.
112T-008: I also like the questions about I can
112T-008: values and vectors of a a squared and a inverse, and
112T-008: things like that. So.
112T-007: And I think it's important to do at this stage some of those kind of algebraic principles.
112T-007: because when they do.
112T-007: when I mean in my experience. When the students do have the matrices later, right? They do just still want to do a to the 5th and calculate it, especially when they have sage.
112T-007: And so I I really like kind of
112T-007: building that principle early on that. You don't need to do that.
112R-003: This is part of the math part of the math.
112R-003: Okay.
112R-003: unless anybody has
112R-003: ones that they're
112R-003: that are burning a hole in their pocket
112R-003: right at this moment.
112R-003: I'm going to suggest we do 2 things.
112R-003: one.
112R-003: make sure that we link this into our
112R-003: meeting log and kind of make explicit in our meeting log
112R-003: and give ourselves a homework for next time to. Based on these thoughts set of ideas, question concepts in the sections and existing ones that we could springboard off of.
112R-003: How do we feel about if between now and the next meeting which we'll that's part B, we need to schedule the next meeting. If we have a goal of everyone, try
112R-003: to
112R-003: propose one question for each of these sections.
112R-003: and that way we'll have a pool of questions
112R-003: that we can give each other feedback on.
112R-003: and see what kind of converges and trickles together when we come back, and maybe that's come up with a set of questions we'd like to throw out to some test students to see what happens when we actually put them out in the wild.
112R-003: So I will link that into our meeting. I'll link this document. We've made lots of notes about questions that we like things that we'd like to see
112R-003: in there and then. We really need to crack open our calendars and agree on when we're going to meet next. That's the next priority.
112A-005: So so so you said
112A-005: we should each
112A-005: think of a question.
112R-003: If we had, if our goal, if our goal was that every everybody can. And if you, it doesn't have to be this way, everybody comes up with 3 questions between now
112R-003: by default, assuming that they're all there's like one for each section. But if you get really excited about linear independence, and all your questions are for linear independence. That's fine.
112R-003: right? It's just. I'm just sort of suggesting a
112R-003: a starting place.
112T-008: Is there any format for? The questions I mean, there is is open ended explained questions. Is that okay?
112T-008: or are you looking for short answer, multiple choice kind of.
112R-003: We're not we're looking at more things that require kind of a short answer component and explain that that explain piece that we keep circling around.
112R-003: Is a focus.
112T-008: Okay.
112R-003: And that may, as the teams go as things develop that it may, it may evolve differently than that. But that's where we're starting out, we'll see what actually shapes up.
112A-005: So I put a link to this.
112A-005: to the questions document in.
112A-005: Okay, you've added it again.
112R-003: I, just, I just did it.
112R-003: Did you do? Okay?
112R-003: And then as for okay, so we also need a volunteer to be the note taker next time.
112R-003: So
112R-003: So next time, David, if you if you could be, we'll just kind of have this rotation. So, David, you can be the timekeeper next time.
112R-003: and somebody else can be the note taper. We'll kind of like who would? Who would like to volunteer to be our next note taker.
112T-008: I was. Gonna say, I can do it, but I think Josh was raising his hand so.
112S-001: Yeah, I can be.
112T-008: Happy to let let you do it so I can. I can volunteer later.
112R-003: Great.
112A-005: Thanks, Joshua.
112R-003: And then what? So what?
112R-003: Let's see what we're looking at time. Wise today is Monday, October 21.st So we're going to be meeting.
112R-003: Our goal is to meet twice in November.
112R-003: and so, presumably there
112R-003: People may have family gathering considerations
112R-003: later on in the month. Obviously
112R-003: so, if we had a goal of meeting
112R-003: sometime during the week of November 4.th Is that possible for people? And then, if we met sometime in the week of November 18.th What do we think about that.
112A-005: 4, th in the week of the 8.th
112R-003: 18.th
112A-005: I'm out of town.
112A-005: Well, I come back into town like at 2 o'clock
112A-005: on Monday, the 18, th
112A-005: so I know this time works, for
112A-005: you know a lot of us. But the the 18th itself would not be good for me.
112R-003: Okay.
112R-003: what about for
112R-003: the week of the 4? th What do people think as far as windows.
112T-007: I can still do this time. On the Monday.
112A-005: Yeah, this time works for me.
112R-003: Bat channel. November 4.th
112R-003: Okay.
112R-003: that is my time.
112R-003: That's 11 Am.
112R-003: Great.
112R-003: Okay, there is.
112R-003: There is a place that we can put it in our notes down below.
112R-003: and then
112R-003: that Joshua will be our next note taker.
112R-003: Okay? And then we can on on the 4.th When we meet we can talk about what things look like for our second meeting in November.
112R-003: unless anybody wants to. Just like
112R-003: really go gangbusters and try to nail it down right now.
112T-007: I feel like we've also met on the Tuesday around this time, and I don't know if that still works. So maybe doing the 19th at this. At the
112T-007: same time. I don't know if that worked for everybody.
112R-003: It's a problem, for that's a problem for me.
112R-003: I believe that
112S-002: Unfortunately the week of the 18.th I cannot.
112S-002: because I have dance till from 8 in the morning till 5 Pm. From that Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday.
112R-003: What about November 25? th
112R-003: Know it's a little bit later in the month.
112T-008: Works for me.
112T-007: I can do that.
112S-002: Works for me.
112R-003: Same time. November this.
112A-005: That's great!
112R-003: Time. Slot.
112R-003: Okay.
112S-002: Okay, I'm gonna put November 25th on the calendar. Is that.
112R-003: Yes, official.
112S-002: Okay, perfect.
112R-003: November 25, th
112R-003: so 11 Am. Pacific, which is 2 Pm. Eastern
112R-003: awesome.
112R-003: Any other questions, comments, clarifications for the good of the order.
112A-005: I'll just. I think this has been a really great discussion we've had today.
112R-003: I agree.
112R-003: and one of one of the benefits in having a slightly more spaced out set of November meetings is that if we come out of our our 1st November meeting with like, Hey, we have questions we're ready to. We're ready to test them. We have a nice, we have plenty of time in order to actually get those cognitive interviews scheduled and done and feedback for our team by the time we meet again. So
112R-003: fingers crossed because everything's gonna go totally smoothly when it happens. So when that occurs, we'll have a lot of great material to review together.
112R-003: Okay.
112A-005: Cool.
112R-003: Thank you so much. Everyone.
112R-003: We'll see you next time.
112A-005: Okay. Thanks.
112S-002: Bye, everyone.
112T-007: Bye.
112A-005: See you.
112R-003: Thanks guys.